{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green28\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red25\green28\blue31;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12941\c14510\c16471;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
\cssrgb\c12941\c14510\c16471;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Paul Carlon\
Week 2 Research\
\

\fs32 1. 
\f1 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Select five methods that can be used on an Array and describe the following for each: 1) what the method signature is, 2) what the method does, and 3) why would this method be useful (how could you use it)?\

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\fs24 The pop() method, removes the last element from an array, it would be useful when you need to remove an array item, and you know that is the last one. On the other end of it, the shift() method removes the first element and shifts remaining elements down in index. shift() would be necessary when you need to remove first item. These methods are preferable to the delete operator which allows you to specify to element to remove but leaves undefined in it\'92s place.The push() method takes in the primitive, or relative data you would like to add to the end of the array, and is useful when you need to add to the end of your array. The unshift() method takes in an element to be added to the beginning of the array and is useful for adding data to your array\'92s beginning. splice() is a method that also allows you to add to your array. splice() takes in the index number where your want your data inserted, the number of elements you want to delete, and the element or elements you are adding to the array if you are adding any at all, all separated by commas. splice() is great because you can add or delete without having to do it from the beginning or end of the array.\
 \
\
\'93W3 Schools - JavaScript Array Methods\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_array_methods.asp\
\
\'93Pop() in JavaScript\'94\
https://www.educba.com/pop-in-javascript/
\f0\i0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 2. 
\f1 \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 What is a closure and how does it work? Provide an example.\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Closure refers to the scope of your variables. JavaScript starts at the innermost scope and goes outward until it finds the variable. A var variable defined inside of an if, while, or for statement, does change the value of the variable(s) in global scope, this is Block scope. Global scope is a variable created in the document but not within a function or statement. Function scope is a variable created inside of a functions curly braces, that does not alter the global variable or work outside of the function.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf0 \
\'93W3 Schools - JavaScript Function Closures\'94\
https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_function_closures.asp\
\
Traversy, Brad. \'91JavaScript Crash Course For Beginners\'92\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c&t=2662s\
}